# 2021-02-08: OGG Patching

## Overview

Before I use the OGG home, I want to patch it. Unfortunately, the OGG
documentation is not clear on how to achieve this.

# Table of Contents

* [OGG Patching](#ogg-patching)
  * [Installation Instructions](#installation-instructions)
  * [My Oracle Support Documents](#my-oracle-support-documents)
  * [Downloaded Patch](#downloaded-patch)
  * [Unable to Determine Which Version of OPatch](#unable-to-determine-which-version-of-opatch)

# OGG Patching

## Installation Instructions

"[11.1 Patching Oracle Platform with OPatch](https://docs.oracle.com/en/middleware/goldengate/core/19.1/installing/patching-oracle-platform-opatch.html)" says:

> 1. Ensure that the Oracle GoldenGate version on which you are installing the patch or from which you are rolling back the patch is Oracle GoldenGate release 19c for Oracle.
> 1. Use the latest version of OPatch. If you do not have the latest version, follow the instructions outlined in the My Oracle Support note 224346.1, available at:
> 
> [https://support.oracle.com/CSP/main/article?cmd=show&type=NOT&id=224346.1](https://support.oracle.com/CSP/main/article?cmd=show&type=NOT&id=224346.1)
> 1. Set the `ORACLE_HOME` environment variable to the Oracle GoldenGate installation directory, which is referred to as `ORACLE_HOME`.
> 1. Set the `PATH` environment variable to include the location of the unzip executable, and the `ORACLE_HOME` and the `ORACLE_HOME/OPatch` directories present in the Oracle GoldenGate home.
> 1. Verify the Oracle Inventory, which OPatch accesses to install the patches. To verify the inventory, run the following command:
> 
> `$ opatch lsinventory`

## My Oracle Support Documents

"[How to Apply Patches for GoldenGate (Doc ID 2188592.1)](https://support.oracle.com/epmos/faces/DocContentDisplay?id=2188592.1)" says:

> 2. GoldenGate 12.1 or above
>    - OPatch utility is introduced, and OPatch is required to apply Patch.
>    - Patch is not provided as full build, and patch definitely requires base release media.
>    - For example, you would like to configure GoldenGate 12.1.2.1.10, you have to install 12.1.2.1.0 and apply 12.1.2.1.10 by OPatch.
>    - If you would like to upgrade from 12.1.2.1.x to 12.1.2.1.y (x < y), you have to run "opatch apply" command to 12.1.2.1.y.

"[Latest GoldenGate/Database (OGG/RDBMS) Patch recommendations (Doc ID 2193391.1)](https://support.oracle.com/epmos/faces/DocContentDisplay?id=2193391.1)"
pointed to
"[Master Note for Oracle GoldenGate Core Product Patch Sets (Doc ID 1645495.1)](https://support.oracle.com/epmos/faces/DocContentDisplay?id=1645495.1)".
The latest patch set is
"[Oracle GoldenGate 19.1.0.0.201013 Patch Set Availability (Doc ID 2728734.1)](https://support.oracle.com/epmos/faces/DocContentDisplay?id=2728734.1)"
which points to
"[Oracle GoldenGate 19.1.0.0.201013 Microservices for Oracle 19c](https://updates.oracle.com/ARULink/PatchDetails/process_form?patch_num=31908587)".

## Downloaded Patch

I have downloaded the patch, `p31908587_19100201013_Linux-x86-64.zip`, into
`/opt/share/Software/goldengate`.

## Unable to Determine Which Version of OPatch

The Oracle Support documents are not clear on which version of OPatch to use
to apply patches to OGG. I have raised a Service Request to get a definitive
answer.
