# 2021-02-10: Preparing the Database for Oracle GoldenGate

## Overview

Reading the Oracle Documentation on how to prepare the databases for use with
Oracle GoldenGate (OGG).

# Table of Contents

* [Name Conflicts](#name-conflicts)
* [Goldengate Configuration](#goldengate-configuration)
  * [GOLDENGATE1](#goldengate1)
  * [GOLDENGATE2](#goldengate2)
* [Preparing the Database for Oracle GoldenGate](#preparing-the-database-for-oracle-goldengate)
  * [Configuring Connections for Integrated Processes](#configuring-connections-for-integrated-processes)
  * [Configuring Logging Properties](#configuring-logging-properties)
  * [Enabling Oracle GoldenGate in the Database](#enabling-oracle-goldengate-in-the-database)
  * [Setting Flashback Query](#setting-flashback-query)
  * [Managing Server Resources](#managing-server-resources)
  * [Ensuring Row Uniqueness in Source and Target Tables](#ensuring-row-uniqueness-in-source-and-target-tables)

# Name Conflicts

Found that I had two (2) scripts on `goldengate1` with similar names:

- `apply_patches.sh` (RDBMS)
- `apply_patch.sh` (OGG)

I will need to rename these to:

- `apply_rdbms_patches.sh`
- `apply_ogg_patch.sh`

# Goldengate Configuration

## GOLDENGATE1

`GOLDENGATE1` is configured with Oracle GoldenGate (OGG) Microservices. The
data will be extracted from the associated database using an integrated server.

## GOLDENGATE2

`GOLDENGATE2` is configured with Oracle GoldenGate (OGG) Classic. The replicated
data will be applied to the associated database.

# Preparing the Database for Oracle GoldenGate

The procedure is described in
"[Preparing the Database for Oracle GoldenGate](https://docs.oracle.com/en/middleware/goldengate/core/19.1/oracle-db/preparing-database-oracle-goldengate.html#GUID-E06838BD-0933-4027-8A6C-D4A17BDF4E41)".

## Configuring Connections for Integrated Processes

"[Configuring Connections for Integrated Processes](https://docs.oracle.com/en/middleware/goldengate/core/19.1/oracle-db/preparing-database-oracle-goldengate.html#GUID-93EC1F52-84F6-4F7C-99C1-BC306D957E55)" says:

> If you will be using integrated capture and integrated Replicat, each requires
> a dedicated server connection in the `tnsnames.ora` file. 

This will require a service name to be configured in the PDB. This is not done
by default in the [oracle-db-build](https://github.com/dfhawthorne/oracle-db-build) repository.

## Configuring Logging Properties

"[Configuring Logging Properties](https://docs.oracle.com/en/middleware/goldengate/core/19.1/oracle-db/preparing-database-oracle-goldengate.html#GUID-9FFB0F47-A681-4EC8-8E2E-4A03B451D916)" says:

> Oracle GoldenGate relies on the redo logs to capture the data that it needs to
> replicate source transactions. The Oracle redo logs on the source system must
> be configured properly before you start Oracle GoldenGate processing.

The necessary commands are:
```sql
ALTER DATABASE FORCE LOGGING;
ALTER DATABASE ADD SUPPLEMENTAL LOG DATA;
```

This is checked through:
```sql
SELECT supplemental_log_data_min, force_logging FROM v$database;
```

## Enabling Oracle GoldenGate in the Database

"[Enabling Oracle GoldenGate in the Database](https://docs.oracle.com/en/middleware/goldengate/core/19.1/oracle-db/preparing-database-oracle-goldengate.html#GUID-15576AE1-0F7B-4ECF-81A3-3B85085C319A)" says to set the
following parameter:
```
ENABLE_GOLDENGATE_REPLICATION=true
```

## Setting Flashback Query

"[Setting Flashback Query](https://docs.oracle.com/en/middleware/goldengate/core/19.1/oracle-db/preparing-database-oracle-goldengate.html#GUID-AE2D0BE3-F7C3-4A8C-B96C-0498AE71D244)" says to set the following parameters:
```
UNDO_MANAGEMENT=AUTO
UNDO_RETENTION=86400
```
Also, the GoldenGate user (`gg_user`) needs the following privilege:
```sql
GRANT FLASHBACK ANY TABLE TO gg_user;
```

## Managing Server Resources

"[Managing Server Resources](https://docs.oracle.com/en/middleware/goldengate/core/19.1/oracle-db/preparing-database-oracle-goldengate.html#GUID-C076D21C-88BE-4188-B0CE-406BCC29A0FE)" says:

> By default, one integrated capture Extract requests the logmining server to
> run with MAX_SGA_SIZE of 1GB. Thus, if you are running three Extracts in
> integrated capture mode in the same database instance, you need at least 3 GB
> of memory allocated to the Streams pool. As a best practice, keep 25 percent
> of the Streams pool available.

## Ensuring Row Uniqueness in Source and Target Tables

"[Ensuring Row Uniqueness in Source and Target Tables](https://docs.oracle.com/en/middleware/goldengate/core/19.1/oracle-db/preparing-database-oracle-goldengate.html#GUID-644099C5-8950-496C-8592-446FB1566AFD)" says:

> Oracle GoldenGate requires a unique row identifier on the source and target
> tables to locate the correct target rows for replicated updates and deletes.

