# 2021-02-17: Choosing Capture and Apply Modes

## Overview

I am reviewing the GoldenGate configuration for capture and apply.

# Table of Contents

* [Choosing Capture and Apply Modes](#choosing-capture-and-apply-modes)
  * [Integrated Capture is Required for CDB](#integrated-capture-is-required-for-cdb)
    * [Integrated Capture Deployment Options ](#integrated-capture-deployment-options-)
  * [Classic Capture is Deprecated](#classic-capture-is-deprecated)
  * [Deciding Which Apply Method to Use](#deciding-which-apply-method-to-use)
  * [Using Different Capture and Apply Modes Together](#using-different-capture-and-apply-modes-together)
  * [Switching to a Different Process Mode](#switching-to-a-different-process-mode)

# Choosing Capture and Apply Modes

The reference used is
"[Choosing Capture and Apply Modes](https://docs.oracle.com/en/middleware/goldengate/core/19.1/oracle-db/choosing-capture-and-apply-modes.html#GUID-46EEC8E7-F1A3-41F6-ABEE-706B48DC338F)"

## Integrated Capture is Required for CDB

"[About Integrated Capture](https://docs.oracle.com/en/middleware/goldengate/core/19.1/oracle-db/choosing-capture-and-apply-modes.html#GUID-A289A7C3-632D-49CB-9E11-BE267575D915)"
says:

> Integrated capture is the only mode that supports capture from a multitenant
> container database. One Extract can mine multiple pluggable databases within a
> multitenant container database.

So, the configuration of `GOLDENGATE1` with integrated capture was the correct
one.

### Integrated Capture Deployment Options 

"[Integrated Capture Deployment Options](https://docs.oracle.com/en/middleware/goldengate/core/19.1/oracle-db/choosing-capture-and-apply-modes.html#GUID-067F265B-3010-48E8-A024-04A390C7C5E4)"
says:

> The deployment options for integrated capture are described in this section
> and depend on where the mining database is deployed. The mining database is
> the one where the logmining server is deployed.
> 
> - __Local deployment__: For a local deployment, the source database and the
> mining database are the same. The source database is the database for which
> you want to mine the redo stream to capture changes, and also where you deploy
> the logmining server. Because integrated capture is fully integrated with the
> database, this mode does not require any special database setup.

It looks like __local deployment__ is the simplest configuration. I might play
with the other configurations in the future.

## Classic Capture is Deprecated

"[Classic Capture](https://docs.oracle.com/en/middleware/goldengate/core/19.1/oracle-db/choosing-capture-and-apply-modes.html#GUID-78782264-90B5-4AE1-B329-1D2A322903B5)"
says:

> Classic capture has been deprecated from Oracle GoldenGate 18c (18.1.0) and
> higher releases.

Since `GOLDENGATE1` uses a CDB and is using OGG 19c, classic capture is not an
option.

## Deciding Which Apply Method to Use

"[Deciding Which Apply Method to Use](https://docs.oracle.com/en/middleware/goldengate/core/19.1/oracle-db/choosing-capture-and-apply-modes.html#GUID-A4DADEB8-D612-444E-9753-9674E5706D7B)"
says:

> For an Oracle target database, you can run Replicat in parallel,
> non-integrated or integrated mode. Oracle recommends that you use the parallel
> Replicat unless a specific feature requires a different type of Replicat.

I have installed Classic OGG on `GOLDENGATE2`.

## Using Different Capture and Apply Modes Together

"[Using Different Capture and Apply Modes Together](https://docs.oracle.com/en/middleware/goldengate/core/19.1/oracle-db/choosing-capture-and-apply-modes.html#GUID-6344BB72-AF69-40BE-B474-BC6FB01EE8FC_"
says:

> The recommended Oracle GoldenGate configuration, when supported by the Oracle
> version, is to use one integrated capture on an Oracle source and one
> integrated Replicat per source database on an Oracle target. Integrated
> capture supports certain data types more completely than classic capture. One
> integrated Replicat configuration supports all Oracle data types either
> through the inbound server or by switching to direct apply when necessary, and
> it preserves source transaction integrity. You can adjust the parallelism
> settings to the desired apply performance level as needed. 

## Switching to a Different Process Mode

"[Switching to a Different Process Mode](https://docs.oracle.com/en/middleware/goldengate/core/19.1/oracle-db/choosing-capture-and-apply-modes.html#GUID-4F5894C6-399A-48F0-AF19-71108347973F)"
says:

> You can switch between process modes. For example, you can switch from classic
> capture to integrated capture, or from integrated capture to classic capture. 
