# 2021-02-09: Classic and Microservices

## Overview

I decided to mix classic and microservices Oracle GoldenGate (OGG) so that I
can understand both.

# Table of Contents

* [Design](#design)
  * [OPatch Version](#opatch-version)
  * [Patches to be Applied](#patches-to-be-applied)
  * [Retrofitting Design Aesthetic](#retrofitting-design-aesthetic)
  * [Removing New Design Aesthetic](#removing-new-design-aesthetic)
* [Separate Directories for Software Archives](#separate-directories-for-software-archives)
* [OGG Layout](#ogg-layout)
* [Apply Script](#apply-script)

# Design

## OPatch Version

According to [My Oracle Support](https://support.oracle.com), the version of
OPatch provided with the OGG installation is sufficient to apply OGG patches.

This is much simpler than doing a database patch in which the version of OPatch
changes with each new Release Update (RU) or Release Update Revision.

Thus, there is no need to download an OPatch for OGG patching.

## Patches to be Applied

According to [My Oracle Support](https://support.oracle.com), the latest patches
are:

- _Patch 31908556: Oracle GoldenGate 19.1.0.0.201013 for Oracle 19c_ (this is for "classic", also available for 11g, 12c, and 18c rdbms)
- _Patch 31908587: Oracle GoldenGate 19.1.0.0.201013 Microservices for Oracle 19c_ (this is for "microservices", also available for 11g, 12c, and 18c rdbms)

These patches have been saved to `/opt/share/Software/goldengate`:

- `p31908556_19100201013_Linux-x86-64.zip`
- `p31908587_19100201013_Linux-x86-64.zip`

I could parameterise the name of these files as follows:

1. `ogg_patch_number`
1. `ogg_version`
1. `ogg_platform`

Or, I could add the following elements to the `ogg` dictionary I created as
described in my design journal entry of [2021-02-07](2021_02_07.md):

1. `patch_number`
1. `version`
1. `platform`

The latter seems to be better design as it continues the earlier aesthetic.

## Retrofitting Design Aesthetic

In moving towards having a design aesthetic of using the `ogg` dictionary, I
have two (2) host variables:

1. `ogg_response_file`
1. `ogg_sw_archive`

These could also be added to the `ogg` dictionary. If I do so, I will have a
large number of entries at the first level.

I could start grouping these entries as follows:

1. `patching`
1. `installation`

I decided to use the following dictionary structure:

- `ogg:`
  - `patching:`
  - `installation:`
    - `options`

## Removing New Design Aesthetic

In practice, the new design aesthetic of using the `ogg` distionary become
unwieldly in that I ended with a variable name like
`ogg.installation.options.software_location`.

Since this series of scripts refer to an OGG installation, one can infer that
most variables would refer to OGG.

Now, my preferred method of naming is a single level. For example,
`ogg.installation.options.software_location` would now become
`software_location` as there is only software (OGG) being installed.

# Separate Directories for Software Archives

In `/opt/share/Software/goldengate`, I have created two (2) subirectories:

1. `classic`
1. `microservices`

This will allow me to differentiate between the types of OGG software installed and patches.

# OGG Layout

Instead of installing OGG microservices on both nodes, I will now install
OGG classic on `goldengate2`, while continuing to install OGG microservices on
`goldengate1`.

# Apply Script

Patch is applied through a script that uses the patch number as a passed
parameter.
