# 2021-02-14: OGG Credentials and Configure Script

## Overview

I have made a decsion to defer securing Oracle GoldenGate (OGG) credentials to
later. I have started designing the OGG configuration script.

# Table of Contents

* [Establishing Oracle GoldenGate Credentials](#establishing-oracle-goldengate-credentials)
  * [Assigning Credentials to Oracle GoldenGate](#assigning-credentials-to-oracle-goldengate)
  * [Securing the Oracle GoldenGate Credentials](#securing-the-oracle-goldengate-credentials)
* [Design Options](#design-options)
  * [TNS Configuration in Playbook](#tns-configuration-in-playbook)
  * [Single Configuration Script](#single-configuration-script)

# Establishing Oracle GoldenGate Credentials

"[Establishing Oracle GoldenGate Credentials](https://docs.oracle.com/en/middleware/goldengate/core/19.1/oracle-db/establishing-oracle-goldengate-credentials.html#GUID-E40B375A-5042-4195-B563-BE7EDC251880)"

## Assigning Credentials to Oracle GoldenGate

"[Assigning Credentials to Oracle GoldenGate ](https://docs.oracle.com/en/middleware/goldengate/core/19.1/oracle-db/establishing-oracle-goldengate-credentials.html#GUID-B9FB4BAD-AFFF-4843-BBD4-520C15F049F8)"
has the following section, 
__3.1.1.1.2 About the `dbms_goldengate_auth.grant_admin_privilege` Package__
which says:

> Most of the privileges that are needed for Extract and Replicat to operate in
> classic and integrated mode are granted through the
> `dbms_goldengate_auth.grant_admin_privilege` package.
> ...
> The following example shows Extract on Oracle 12c Multitenant Database:
> ```sql
> BEGIN
> dbms_goldengate_auth.grant_admin_privilege(
>   grantee => 'C##GGADMIN',
>   privilege_type => 'CAPTURE',
>   grant_select_privileges => TRUE,
>   do_grants => TRUE,
>   container => 'ALL'
>  ); 
> END;
> ```

Can I just create a common user called `C##GGADMIN`, and this procedure grants
all of the required privileges?

## Securing the Oracle GoldenGate Credentials

"[Securing the Oracle GoldenGate Credentials](https://docs.oracle.com/en/middleware/goldengate/core/19.1/oracle-db/establishing-oracle-goldengate-credentials.html#GUID-02207F3A-2211-4249-99CE-1E9FD1ADCC83)"
refers me to
"[Creating and Populating the Credential Store](https://docs.oracle.com/pls/topic/lookup?ctx=en/middleware/goldengate/core/19.1/oracle-db&id=OGGSE-GUID-E52DE3B6-FADA-422F-AC67-2B5D54CF3575)"
on how to set up a credential store for GoldenGate (OGG).

I will do this at a later date once I am comfortable with the operation of OGG.
I do not want an extra layer to debug at this stage.

# Design Options

## TNS Configuration in Playbook

In line with what I did in
"[install_hammerdb.yml](https://github.com/dfhawthorne/demos/blob/master/resource_manager_thruput/install_hammerdb.yml)",
I will use the `lineinfile` module to add the following TNSNAME aliases:

1. `OGG1_GG1A` for the PDB, `GG1A`, on 'GOLDENGATE1`;
1. `OGG2_GG2A` for the PDB, `GG2A`, on 'GOLDENGATE2`; and
1. `OGG_LOCAL` for the PDB on the local host.

I will have to add services to each PDB. I can use the code from
"[configure_sut_db.py.j2](https://github.com/dfhawthorne/demos/blob/master/resource_manager_thruput/templates/configure_sut_db.py.j2)"
to accomplish this in the configuration script described below. 

## Single Configuration Script

I propose a single configuration script, called `configure_oracle_gg.py`, that
has the following parameters:

1. `gg_client_type` which one of `capture` or `replicat`.
1. `gg_user_name` which is the name of the OGG user


