# 2023-11-05: Integration into XEN Servers

## Overview

With the completion of the [first release of the XEN server farm repository](https://github.com/dfhawthorne/xen_server_farm/releases/tag/v1.0.0), the installation scripts for GoldenGate need to be upgraded.

## Table of Contents

* [Overall Design](#overall-design)
* [Inventory Update](#inventory-update)
* [Configure XEN Server](#configure-xen-server)
* [Update to Installation and Configuration of GoldenGate](#update-to-installation-and-configuration-of-goldengate)
* [Known Issues](#known-issues)

## Overall Design

The installation scripts needs to be split into two (2) parts:

1. Configure the XEN server and start the GoldenGate VMs
1. Install and configure GoldenGate

There is an extra step needed for installation of GoldenGate: the host name needs to be set.

The name of the driving script remains as `sites.yml` as this seems to be the Ansible convention.

The choice of two (2) playbooks is made to highlight that the overall flow with the first phase running on the XEN server (`victoria`), and the second phase running on the GoldenGate cluster.

## Inventory Update

Two (2) groups are created in the `inventory/hosts` file:

1. `xen_server` for the server running XEN
1. `cluster` for the servers in the GoldenGate cluster

## Configure XEN Server

The script for configuring the XEN server so that the VMs are started is called `start_xen_vms.yml`. No alternative names were considered.

The VMs had been built through the `sites.yml` playbook in the [xen_server_farm](https://github.com/dfhawthorne/xen_server_farm) GIT repository.

This script uses two (2) scripts:

1. `create_cpu_pools.sh` is provided by the [xen_server_farm](https://github.com/dfhawthorne/xen_server_farm) GIT repository.
2. `start_goldengate.sh` is in the `files` directory and is copied to the directory, `/OVS/scripts`, on the XEN server.

I allow two (2) minutes for the spin-up of the GoldenGate VMs.

## Update to Installation and Configuration of GoldenGate

Added an extra step to set host name

## Known Issues

Still need to set SSH keys manually.
